[CONTENT](post): Comment construire une image docker avec des variables d'environnement dans une GitHub action ? (#1)
Thomasevano/Portfolio: src/content/posts/en/comment-construire-une-image-docker-avec-des-variables-denvironnement-dans-une-github-action.md

---
title: How to build a Docker image with environment variables in a Github action ?

> pubDate: 2024-11-15

Author: ```suggestion
pubDate: 2024-11-26
```

description: In order to reduce the build time of the Docker image, of my application when deploying it to my instance, I came up with the idea of doing this via Github action. Here's what I learned (it wasn't as simple as I thought.)
author: Thomas Evano
tags:
  - docker
  - github-action
draft: false
---

> I host my projects on a [Coolify](https://coolify.io) instance. it's an amazing product, it works really well, I've been looking for a while to find a self-hosted PaaS to deploy my projects on an instance that I own. The only problem for now is that when using [Cloud version](https://coolify.io/cloud) (Coolify instance managed by them), I noticed a rather long build time even more so when using a Docker image. To reduce the uild time, I came up with a solution that I knew would be faster, Github actions.

Author: ```suggestion
I host my projects on a [Coolify](https://coolify.io) instance. it's an amazing product, it works really well, I've been looking for a while to find a self-hosted PaaS to deploy my projects on an instance that I own. The only problem for now is that when using [Cloud version](https://coolify.io/cloud) (a Coolify instance managed by them), I noticed a rather long build time even more so when using a Docker image. To reduce build time, I came up with a solution that I knew would be faster, Github actions.
```

## Where to store variables on Github ?

My Docker image needs environnment variables to work. I need to set them somewhere in Github. For this I need to go to the settings of my repository.
![section "Settings" of the main menu of a Github repository](../../../assets/articles/comment-construire-une-image-docker-avec-des-variables-denvironnement-dans-une-github-action/github_repository_settings_tabs.png)

Then in the "Security" tab > "Secrets and Variables" > "actions"
![category "security" of the sidebar of the repository settings](../../../assets/articles/comment-construire-une-image-docker-avec-des-variables-denvironnement-dans-une-github-action/security_side_menu_repository_settings.png)

> When you arrive on this page, there is 4 places divided in 2 tabs where set your variables. First in the "Secrets" tab in the "Environment secrets" section, then in the "Variables" tab which is the same place.

Author: ```suggestion
When you arrive on this page, there is 4 places divided in 2 tabs where to set your variables. First in the "Secrets" tab in the "Environment secrets" section, then in the "Variables" tab which is at the same place.
```

![github actions secrets and variables](../../../assets/articles/comment-construire-une-image-docker-avec-des-variables-denvironnement-dans-une-github-action/actions_secrets_tab.png)

The first lines tells us the best way to set the variables depending our needs. In my case, as it's confidentials variables, the **Secrets** tab is the most appropriate.

![my secrets variables blured](../../../assets/articles/comment-construire-une-image-docker-avec-des-variables-denvironnement-dans-une-github-action/github_repository_secrets.png)
Once all my variables are set in the 'repository secrets' section, it's time to use them in my github action.

## How to use them in a Github action

There is multiple ways to use variables inside a github action. As a good developer, I started to follow [Github documenatation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-for-github-actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions#using-secrets-in-a-workflow), thinking naïvely that it would work the first time (spoiler: it's rare in development).

> My mistake was to not immediately think that I wanted to use them inside a Dockerfile. One little research later, taking this into consideration, here i am reading [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/build/ci/github-actions/secrets/) then much more suited to my specific case. So I applied to reproduce this in my Github action, this gives me this code:

Author: ```suggestion
My mistake was to not immediately think that I wanted to use them inside a Dockerfile. One little research later, taking this into consideration, here i am reading [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/build/ci/github-actions/secrets/) then much more suited to my specific case. So I took care of reproducing this in my Github action, and there is the code:
```

```yaml
- name: Build image and push to registry
        uses: docker/build-push-action@v6.7.0
        with:
          context: .
          file: Dockerfile
          secrets: |
            "your_secret=${{ secrets.YOUR_SECRET }}"
          platforms: linux/amd64
          push: true
          tags: ${{ env.REGISTRY }}/${{ env.IMAGE_NAME }}:latest
```

## Using the variable in the Dockerfile

Inside Docker documentation, it is indicated that the secret must be used as such:

```dockerfile
RUN --mount=type=secret,id=github_token,env=YOUR_SECRET
```

In my case, this didn't work. It's the step that caused me the most trouble, during a moment, I was unable to have this value in my Dockerfile. Fortunately, a member of the Coolify Discord community helped me and appeared with this solution:

```dockerfile
RUN  --mount=type=secret,id=your_secret \
  echo "YOUR_SECRET=$(cat /run/secrets/your_secret)" >> .env.production
```

> I will be honest, today I still don't know how this magic works, but it works. If you understand it, any help is welcome to help me understand how it works.

Author: ```suggestion
I will be honest, I still don't know how this magic works, but it works. If you understand it, any help is welcome to help me understand how it works.
```

### ⚠️ The variables must be placed at build time in your Dockerfile, just before the command

```bash
npm run build
```

## Conclusion

> I hope this article will help other people who have encountered this problem. This is my first article, and I hope to write many more on subjects that I'm passionate about our other problems I have encountered and that I succeed in solving like this one. I will soon introduce you to the application for which I encountered this problem. Don't forget to subscribe to the RSS feed so you don't miss a thing, and follow me on Twitter [@tvn_dev](https://twitter.com/tvn_dev) and Bluesky [@tvn.dev](https://bsky.app/profile/tvn.dev).

Author: ```suggestion
I hope this article will help other peoples who have encountered this problem. 
This is my first article, and I hope to write many more on subjects that I'm passionate about our other problems I have encountered and that I succeed in solving like this one. I will soon introduce you to the application for which I encountered this problem. 
Don't forget to subscribe to the RSS feed so you don't miss a thing, and follow me on Twitter [@tvn_dev](https://twitter.com/tvn_dev) and Bluesky [@tvn.dev](https://bsky.app/profile/tvn.dev).
```
